W-10591765 revisions to this page for template (#603)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/enable-inbound-traffic.adoc

Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal provides load balancing to manage inbound traffic to Mule applications and API proxies. Network traffic is balanced across multiple replicas of an application, which, by default, are deployed across different worker VMs.

> Runtime Fabric instances can be shared across multiple environments. After installation, configure one or more environments for each Runtime Fabric instance to enable application deployments. You must associate at least one environment with each Runtime Fabric instance to be able to deploy Mule applications or API gateways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can share Runtime Fabric instances across multiple environments. After installation, configure one or more environments for each Runtime Fabric instance to enable application deployments. Associate at least one environment with each Runtime Fabric instance to deploy Mule applications or API gateways.
```

Applications deployed to a production environment must be deployed to an instance of Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal that is separate from nonproduction applications.

By default, inbound traffic is disabled to prevent consuming unnecessary resources. To allow Mule applications or API gateways to listen on inbound connections, you must enable inbound traffic.

== Enable Inbound Traffic

To enable inbound traffic on Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal, complete the following tasks:

> . Configure Inbound Traffic Using Anypoint Runtime Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure inbound traffic using Anypoint Runtime Manager.
```

. Configure a Transport Layer Security (TLS) context for HTTPS.

> . (Optional) Select Security Policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optionally, select security policies.
```

> . (Optional) Select Advanced Options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optionally, select advanced options.
```

> . (Optional) Configure Internal Load Balancer Logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optionally, configure internal load balancer logs.
```

> . Verify That Inbound Traffic Is Enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that inbound traffic is enabled.
```

> . Configure an External Load Balancer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure an external load balancer.
```

> . Deploy Applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Deploy applications.
```

=== Before You Begin

* Complete the prerequisite network-related tasks in xref:install-prereqs.adoc#infrastructure-requirements[Infrastructure Requirements] before enabling inbound traffic on Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal.

> * Create or configure an external TCP load balancer to manage traffic to applications running in Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create or configure an external TCP load balancer to manage traffic to applications running in Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal.
```

* Gather all IP addresses of controller or dedicated nodes (depending on the configuration you choose during installation) that can be reached by the external TCP load balancer. You might not know these IP addresses until you complete the Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal installation.

> +

Reviewer: I would end this list item here and cross-refer to the conceptual information specifically documenting the setup and use of these addresses. This is way too much detail for a prereq-list item.

For smaller traffic loads, you can share controller nodes for cluster administration and inbound traffic TLS termination.
+

> For larger traffic loads, use dedicated nodes. Refer to xref:deploy-resource-allocation.adoc#internal-load-balancer[Internal Load Balancer] for additional information.

Reviewer: See comment above.

+ 

> The number of replicas for inbound traffic is set to the number of controller nodes for shared mode or the number of dedicated internal load balancer nodes for dedicated mode. You must include all IP addresses of the controller nodes or the dedicated internal load balancer nodes in your external load balancer or DNS resolution. Otherwise, traffic cannot be routed from the load balancer to Runtime Fabric. Refer to xref:deploy-resource-allocation.adoc#internal-load-balancer[Internal Load Balancer] and xref:index-vm-bare-metal.adoc#network-architecture[Network Architecture] for additional information.

Reviewer: See comment above.

If you choose to keep this text here...
```suggestion
Set the number of replicas for inbound traffic to match either the number of controller nodes (for shared mode) or the number of dedicated internal load balancer nodes (for dedicated mode). Include all of the IP addresses for these nodes in your external load balancer or DNS resolution; otherwise, traffic cannot be routed from the load balancer to Runtime Fabric. Refer to xref:deploy-resource-allocation.adoc#internal-load-balancer[Internal Load Balancer] and xref:index-vm-bare-metal.adoc#network-architecture[Network Architecture] for additional information.
```

+

> By default, the inbound load balancer runs on each controller node configured in Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal. Refer to xref:deploy-resource-allocation.adoc[Resource Allocation and Performance on Anypoint Runtime Fabric] for more information.

Reviewer: See comment above; all this text belongs elsewhere.

* Know the domain or domains to use for routing traffic to your applications.
* Understand that you need to configure an external load balancer to proxy the TCP protocol. The load balancer does not terminate TLS but does allow Runtime Fabric to do so.
* Configure the DNS settings to associate domains that are signed in the TLS certificate to the IP address or addresses served by the external load balancer.

=== Configure Inbound Traffic Using Anypoint Runtime Manager

To configure inbound traffic:

. Navigate to Runtime Manager and select *Runtime Fabric*.

> . Select the name of your Runtime Fabric to open the management page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the name of your Runtime Fabric instance to open the management page.
```

> . In the *Associated Environments* tab, ensure that your Runtime Fabric is associated with the environments in which applications are to be deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Associated Environments* tab, ensure that your Runtime Fabric instance is associated with the environments in which applications are to be deployed.
```

. Select *Inbound Traffic* and then select *Enable inbound traffic*.

> . In the *Resource Allocation* section, select a *Shared Mode* or *Dedicated Mode*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Resource Allocation* section, select *Shared Mode* or *Dedicated Mode*.
```

+

> [WARNING]

Reviewer: This is way too much text to insert into the middle of this set of task steps; this belongs in conceptual information about the use of shared vs. dedicated mode...probably along with the text that I suggest omitting earlier....

Reviewer: I will copyedit it, but it really should be moved out of the list of steps.

.. Specify a value for *CA path certificate (optional)*.
+

.. Optionally, set any necessary xref:optional-select-security-policies[security policies] or xref:optional-select-advanced-options[advanced options].
.. Select *Add certificate*. The *Key password* field is blanked out for security reasons. 
+
The public certificate, private key, and key passcode are saved in the secrets manager.

* Option 2: *Upload JKS*
+
.. Specify a value for *Keystore File*. At a minimum, the keystore file contains the public certificate and private key.
.. Specify a value for *Keystore Password*.
.. In the *Select alias from keystore* window, specify a value for *Alias*. The alias is used to select a specific key pair.
.. Select *Add certificate*. The *Keystore Passcode* and *Key Passcode* fields are blanked out for security reasons.
+
The JKS file information is saved in the global secrets group for your organization.
* Option 3: *Import from Secrets Manager* 
+
Refer to the instructions in xref::configure-adv-tls-context.adoc[Import a TLS Context from Secrets Manager (Advanced)].

== Optionally Select Security Policies

> You must define security policies in Anypoint Security before they are displayed as options in the *HTTP Limits*, *Web Application Firewall (WAF)*, *IP Whitelist*, or *Denial of Service (DoS)* dropdown lists.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to add security policies, you must first define them in Anypoint Security before they are displayed as options in the *HTTP Limits*, *Web Application Firewall (WAF)*, *IP Whitelist*, or *Denial of Service (DoS)* dropdown lists.
```

> You must define security policies in Anypoint Security before they are displayed as options in the *HTTP Limits*, *Web Application Firewall (WAF)*, *IP Whitelist*, or *Denial of Service (DoS)* dropdown lists.

Author: ```suggestion
You must define security policies in Anypoint Security before they are displayed as options in the *HTTP Limits*, *Web Application Firewall (WAF)*, *IP Allowlist*, or *Denial of Service (DoS)* dropdown lists.
```

> If you want to add security policies, you must first define them in Anypoint Security before they are displayed as options in the *HTTP Limits*, *Web Application Firewall (WAF)*, *IP Whitelist*, or *Denial of Service (DoS)* dropdown lists.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to add security policies, you must first define them in Anypoint Security before they are displayed as options in the *HTTP Limits*, *Web Application Firewall (WAF)*, *IP Allowlist*, or *Denial of Service (DoS)* dropdown lists.
```

* *Accept HTTP requests only*
+

> Because certificates are not used in this case, click *Add Domain* and manually enter domains for routing requests to applications and skip the xref:configure-a-tls-context-for-hh[Configure a TLS context for HTTPS].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because certificates are not used in this case, click *Add Domain* and manually enter domains for routing requests to applications. Skip the xref:configure-a-tls-context-for-hh[Configure a TLS context for HTTPS] task.
```
Actually, consider omitting the second sentence here and addressing this at the beginning of the following task in this process.

+
[NOTE]
*Accept HTTP requests only* is not a secure option for external connections. Use this option for network connections for which an external load balancer has previously terminated a secure TLS connection and is forwarding traffic via HTTP to Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal.

> === Configure a TLS context for HTTPS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure a TLS Context for HTTPS
```

> If you selected *Accept HTTPS requests* in the *Protocol* section, all inbound traffic entering Anypoint Runtime Fabric is encrypted using TLS. In this case, when enabling inbound traffic, you can provide up to ten certificates but at least one valid TLS certificate is required. See xref:deploy-resource-allocation.adoc#CPU_Cert_Req[CPU Requirements for Keys and Certificates] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you selected *Accept HTTPS requests only* in the *Protocol* section, skip this task and continue with <xref to the following task in sequence>.
+
If you selected *Accept HTTPS requests...*, all inbound traffic entering Anypoint Runtime Fabric is encrypted using TLS. In this case, when enabling inbound traffic, you can provide up to 10 certificates, but at least 1 valid TLS certificate is required. See xref:deploy-resource-allocation.adoc#CPU_Cert_Req[CPU Requirements for Keys and Certificates] for more information.
```

> You can change only the TLS configuration and policies for Runtime Fabrics that you own. For inherited Runtime Fabric instances, the TLS configuration is read-only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change only the TLS configuration and policies for Runtime Fabric instances that you own. For inherited Runtime Fabric instances, the TLS configuration is read-only.
```

> TLS termination is computationally expensive, so allocate enough CPU to increase throughput and decrease latency. Refer to xref:deploy-resource-allocation.adoc#internal-load-balancer-memory-allocation[Internal Load Balancer Memory Allocation] for more information on CPU allocation and throughput, including how the TLS private key type and size affect these numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TLS termination is computationally expensive, so allocate enough CPU to increase throughput and decrease latency. Refer to xref:deploy-resource-allocation.adoc#internal-load-balancer-memory-allocation[Internal Load Balancer Memory Allocation] for more information about CPU allocation and throughput, including how the TLS private key type and size affect these numbers.
```

> . Still in Runtime Manager, select *Add certificate*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Runtime Manager, select *Add certificate*.
```
I would omit "still" because it ties this task to the previous, making these texts codependent and therefore not reusable.

> . To configure a TLS context for HTTPs, choose the appropriate option between steps 3, 4, and 5. 

Reviewer: Yikes, this is super confusing, referring in Step 2 to choosing among Steps 3, 4, and 5, which are mutually exclusive. 
I suggest switching this to a 2-step task in which the second step has three bulleted options, each with its own substeps beginning with a...
OR
I suggest including in the intro text that you start in the *Add certificate* section of Runtime Manager and then follow with three separate tasks:
 ==== Configure a TLS Context for HTTPS by Uploading PEM
 ==== Configure a TLS Context for HTTPS by Uploading JKS
 ==== Configure a TLS Context for HTTPS by Importing from Secrets Manager (and specify advanced users only in the intro to the steps, not in the title)

Reviewer: The rest is copyedited only. 
If you keep this structure, ensure that your information hierarchy is accurate, because all this nested listing is really difficult to keep track of.

Author: I originally had it as 2-step task with bulleted options and then I tried to get too clever. I'll go back to that.

. Option 1: *Upload PEM*
+
Use this option to upload a public certificate and private key in Privacy-Enhanced Mail (PEM) format and use TLS default values. A PEM file is a Base64-encoded ASCII file with a `.cer`, `.crt`, or `.pem` extension.
+
With this option, you cannot change the default values for TLS versions, ciphers, and other TLS configuration options.
+
This is the default option when no TLS context exists for Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal.

> .. For *Public certificate*, specify a public certificate for the inbound traffic server in PEM format. The *Domains* field lists domains that are selectable for *Application url*, which is used for routing requests to an application. By default, the first domain listed is used. Other values can be selected via the *Applications->Ingress* page.

Reviewer: Are you sure that you need more than the first sentence--the actual step--only?
This monster you found really needs to be rewritten to extract the conceptual information from the steps, which should be single-line instructions about taking a single action, without background or explanation that is ancillary to taking the action itself. GLOBAL consideration for all that follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. For *Public certificate*, specify a public certificate for the inbound traffic server in PEM format. The *Domains* field lists domains that can be used for the *Application url* value, with the first domain listed as the default. You can select other values via the *Applications->Ingress* page.
```

+
The certificate must be set with a passphrase and a common name (CN) that specifies the domain for each application deployed to Runtime Fabric.
+
Select *Details* to view certificate details, including domains, expiration, and the other configuration settings.
+
*** If the CN contains a wildcard, the endpoint for each deployed application takes the form `{app-name}.{common-name}`.
*** If the CN does not contain a wildcard, the endpoint takes the form `{common-name}/{app-name}`.
.. Specify a value for *Private key*. This is the PEM formatted file that contains the private key for the certificate.
+
Optionally, leave the *Key password* field empty if your key is unencrypted (not recommended).
.. Specify a value for *CA path certificate (optional)*.
+

> The CA path contains the intermediary and root certificates that provide the path (chain of trust) from the certificate to the root. The file is downloadable from the CA that signed your certificate. When you provide an entry in this field, the Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal load balancer at every connection sends both the certificate and the path to the client. Many clients require the server to send the CA path so that the certificate can be validated.

Reviewer: Again, way too much detail to include as part of a step. Copyedit:
```suggestion
The CA path contains the intermediary and root certificates that provide the path (chain of trust) from the certificate to the root. The file is downloadable from the CA that signed your certificate. When you provide an entry in this field, the Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal load balancer at every connection sends both the certificate and the path to the client. Many clients require the server to send the CA path so that the certificate can be validated.
```
If you do not subsequently use the term "chain of trust," consider omitting it; if it is the term most commonly understood by your audience, then use it only.

.. Optionally, set any necessary xref:optional-select-security-policies[security policies] or xref:optional-select-advanced-options[advanced options].
.. Select *Add certificate*. The *Key password* field is blanked out for security reasons. 
+
The public certificate, private key, and key passcode are saved in the secrets manager.
. Option 2: *Upload JKS*
+
Use this option to upload a Java Keystore (JKS) file and use TLS default values. With this option, you cannot change the default values for TLS versions, ciphers, and other TLS configuration options. A JKS file is a repository for authorization or public key certificates and does not store secret keys.
+

> .. Specify a value for *Keystore File*. At a minimum, the keystore file contains the public certificate and private key, also known as a key pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Specify a value for *Keystore File*. At a minimum, the keystore file contains the public certificate and private key, also known as a _key pair_.
```
Again, use/introduce synonyms judiciously. They can become quite confusing, esp. for nonnative English readers.

.. Specify a value for *Keystore Password*.

> .. In the *Select alias from keystore* window, which is enabled after you specify a keystore file and keystore passcode,

Reviewer: Do we really have to explain when this window became enabled?

specify a value for *Alias*. The alias is used to select a specific key pair.
.. Select *Add certificate*. The *Keystore Passcode* and *Key Passcode* fields are blanked out for security reasons.
*** If you select a different *Alias* value, the *Key Passcode* field is again enabled.

> *** If you upload a new keystore file, the *Alias* and *Keystore Passcode* fields are again enabled and the *Alias* field contents are cleared.

Reviewer: Super confusing: we are asking the audience to backtrack to a previous step and select a different value than what has already been selected.
Why are we explaining how the UI works? This should be obvious to the user as they follow the steps.

+
The JKS file information is saved in the global secrets group for your organization.

> . Option 3: *Import from Secrets Manager* (For Advanced Users)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Option 3: *Import from Secrets Manager* 
```

+

> This option imports a TLS context from the secrets manager and supports advanced configurations such as creating a TLS context, mutual authentication, selecting ciphers, and selecting TLS versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option is for advanced users only. It imports a TLS context from the secrets manager and supports advanced configurations such as creating a TLS context, mutual authentication, selecting ciphers, and selecting TLS versions.
```

+
Refer to the instructions in xref::configure-adv-tls-context.adoc[Import a TLS Context from Secrets Manager (Advanced)].

> == (Optional) Select Security Policies

Reviewer: Is this really a peer to == Enable Inbound Traffic, all the way at the top?
```suggestion
== Optionally Select Security Policies
```

> You must define security policies in Anypoint Security before they are displayed as options in the *HTTP Limits*, *Web Application Firewall (WAF)*, *IP Whitelist*, or *Denial of Service (DoS)* dropdown lists.

Reviewer: If you must do this, why do we label it Optional? Clarify.

> To access a Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal instance using more than one DNS, add additional DNS entries in the subject alternative names (SAN) certificate property. If a certificate has multiple DNS entries specified in the SAN property, the available URLs are displayed in the *Applications->Ingress* page when you deploy an application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access a Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal instance using more than one DNS, add DNS entries in the subject alternative names (SAN) certificate property. If a certificate has multiple DNS entries specified in the SAN property, the available URLs are displayed in the *Applications->Ingress* page when you deploy an application.
```

[NOTE]

> To define a security policy in Anypoint Security, you must have the Anypoint Security - Edge entitlement for your Anypoint Platform account. If you do not see *Security* listed in *Management Center*, contact your customer success manager to enable Anypoint Security for your account. Refer to xref:anypoint-security::index-policies.adoc[Anypoint Security Policies for Edge] for additional information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define a security policy in Anypoint Security, you must have the Anypoint Security - Edge entitlement for your Anypoint Platform account. If you do not see *Security* listed in *Management Center*, contact your customer success manager to enable Anypoint Security for your account. Refer to xref:anypoint-security::index-policies.adoc[Anypoint Security Policies for Edge] for additional information.
```

> == (Optional) Select Advanced Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Optionally Select Advanced Options
```

> The following table describes additional configuration options you might set for your environment. 

Reviewer: ...and WHY you might set them?

*Default value*: Blank and unchecked.

|===

If you are using WebSockets:

* Provide the correct request headers to upgrade the HTTP connection to WebSockets.
* xref:mule-runtime::mule-server-notifications.adoc[Configure Mule runtime engine with a WebSockets Listener].
* Increase the `Connection Idle Time-out` value to 900 seconds (15 minutes) to ensure consistency with the WebSockets Mule application default value.

> == (Optional) Configure Internal Load Balancer Logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Optionally Configure Internal Load Balancer Logs
```

You can define the log levels for the internal load balancer. Runtime Fabric supports the following log levels, listed in descending order of verbosity:

** FATAL
** ERROR
** WARNING
** INFO
** VERBOSE
** DEBUG
** TRACE

The more verbose log levels, which include WARNING, INFO, VERBOSE, DEBUG, and TRACE, consume more CPU resources for each request. Consider this when adjusting the log level and allocating resources for the internal load balancer.

> By default, the activity across all IPs addresses behind your endpoint is logged. To help reduce CPU consumption when using more verbose log levels, add IP filters to only log-specific IP addresses. This also reduces the quantity of logs when debugging a connection for a specific or limited number of IP addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the activity across all IP addresses behind your endpoint is logged. To help reduce CPU consumption when using more verbose log levels, add IP filters to only log specific IP addresses. This also reduces the number of logs when debugging a connection for a specific or limited number of IP addresses.
```

For HTTPS requests, you must configure an external load balancer to load balance HTTPS traffic between each controller VM on Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal. Controller VMs are virtual machines dedicated to run the components that power Anypoint Runtime Fabric. Each controller VM runs a replica of the internal load balancer and is configured to listen on port 443.

Provision the external TCP load balancer to route traffic to the Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal controller or dedicated nodes with the IPs identified during installation.

=== External Load Balancer Requirements

When running multiple controller VMs, you must have an external load balancer outside Runtime Fabric on VMs / Bare Metal to front each of the controller VMs.

The external load balancer must support TCP load balancing and must be configured with a server pool containing the IP addresses of each controller VM. A health check must also be configured on the external load balancer, listening on port 443.

This configuration of the external load balancer provides:

* High availability
* Protection against failure

> * Automatic failover if a replica of the internal load balancer restarts or is evicted and rescheduled on another controller VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Automatic failover if a replica of the internal load balancer restarts or is evicted and rescheduled on another controller VM
```
